=head1 NAME

ssh-sc-auth.conf - ssh-sc-auth primary configuration file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

ssh-sc-auth.conf

=head1 DESCRIPTION

ssh-sc-auth reads configuration data from ssh-sc-auth.conf.  The file contains keyword-argument pairs, one per line.  Lines starting with '#' and empty lines are interpreted as comments.  Arguments may optionally be enclosed in double quotes (") in order to represent arguments containing spaces.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<debug> [on|off|yes|no|1|0]

Toggles debugging output and/or logging on/off.  When ssh-sc-auth is called from sshd, it will log debugging messages to SYSLOG only.  Debugging messages are only sent to STDOUT when ssh-sc-auth is called from the command-line.

=item B<use_syslog> [on|off|yes|no|1|0]

Toggles syslog logging on/off.  When ssh-sc-auth is called from sshd, it will log messages to SYSLOG only.  Messages are only sent to STDOUT when ssh-sc-auth is called from the command-line.

=item B<expiry_offset> [seconds]

The number of seconds to use as an offset when determining if a certificate is expired.  Normally this is set to '0' however, there may be cases where an organization may want to implement a grace period while certificates are being renewed.

=item B<ssh_options> [options list]

The list of SSH authorized_keys options to add to the entry being returned.  For example; 'no-agent-forwarding,no-port-forwarding,no-user-rc'.

=item AUTHENTICATION

=over 4

=item B<authn_ldap_uri> [uri]

Specify the LDAP URI to the authentication server.

=item B<authn_ldap_cert_basedn> [certbasedn]

Specify the base DN used to locate the user's certificate.  In some environments the certificate and the user's account entry may reside in different branches in the LDAP server.

=item B<authn_ldap_cert_filter> [certfilter]

Specify the search filter used to locate the user's certificate.  In some environments the certificate and the user's account entry may reside in different branches in the LDAP server.

=item B<authn_ldap_user_basedn> [userbasedn]

Specify the base DN used to locate the user's account.  In some environments the certificate and the user's account entry may reside in different branches in the LDAP server.

=item B<authn_ldap_user_filter> [userfilter]

Specify the search filter used to locate the user's account.  In some environments the certificate and the user's account entry may reside in different branches in the LDAP server.

=item B<authn_ldap_cafile> [cacertfile]

Path to the CA certificate for the authentication server.

=item B<authn_ldap_verify> [none|optional|require]

Specify how to verify the authentication server's certificate.

=item B<authn_ldap_timeout> [seconds]

Specify the timeout, in seconds, to use when connecting to the authentication server.

=item B<authn_ldap_bindpw> [binddn] 

Specify the DN to use for credentialed access to the authentication server.

=item B<authn_ldap_binddn> [bindpw]

Specify the password to use for credentialed access to the authentication server.

=back

=item AUTHORIZATION

=over 4

=item B<authz_ldap_uri> [uri]

Specify the LDAP URI to the authorization server.

=item B<authz_ldap_basedn> [basedn]

Specify the base DN used to locate the user's account.

=item B<authz_ldap_filter> [filter]

Specify the search filter used to locate the user's account.

=item B<authz_ldap_cafile> [cafile]

Path to the CA certificate for the authorization server.

=item B<authz_ldap_verify> [none|optional|require]

Specify how to verify the authorization server's certificate.

=item B<authz_ldap_timeout> [seconds]

Specify the timeout, in seconds, to use when connecting to the authorization server.

=item B<authz_ldap_binddn> [binddn]

Specify the DN to use for credentialed access to the authorization server.

=item B<authz_ldap_bindpw> [bindpw]

Specify the password to use for credentialed access to the authorization server.

=back

=item X509 EXTENSION VERIFICATION

=over 4

=item B<verify_x509_extensions> [no|yes|true|false|1|0]

Toggle the verification of the x509 key usage attributes on/off.

=item B<x509_key_usage> [keyusage]

Specify the key usage bits, as a comma-delimited string, that must be set.

Possible values are:
    Digital Signature
    Non Repudiation
    Key Encipherment
    Data Encipherment
    Key Agreement
    Certificate Sign
    CRL Sign
    Encipher Only
    Decipher Only

=item B<x509_extended_key_usage> [extkeyusage]

Specify the extended key usage attributes, as a comma-delimited string, that must be set.

=back

=item OCSP VERIFICATION

=over 4

=item B<verify_ocsp> [yes|no|true|false|1|0]

Toggle the OCSP verification on/off.

=item B<openssl> [path-to-openssl]

Specify the path to the openssl binary.

=item B<ocsp_issuer> [cert]

Specify the path to the issuer certificate to be used for OCSP verification

=item B<ocsp_cafile> [cacert]

Specify the path to the CA certificate to be used for OCSP verification

=item B<ocsp_url> [url]

Specify the OCSP url to be used for OCSP verification.  If this option is blank, ssh-sc-auth will attempt to pull the url from the certificate.

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

RFC-3280

=head1 BUGS AND LIMITATIONS

ssh-sc-auth assumes that all authentication certificates are signed by the
same CA.

=head1 AUTHOR

Bennett Samowich <bennett@foolean.org>

=head1 LICENSE AND COPYRIGHT

This file is part of ssh-sc-auth.

Copyright 2017 Bennett Samowich <bennett@foolean.org>

ssh-sc-auth is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

ssh-sc-auth is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with ssh-sc-auth.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

=cut
